friends here.
We're going to discuss a bold,
conditional statements off python C.
Conditional statements are very,
very important.
While writing your scripts,
let me weapon one off for a previous a script that is just displaying it will string when
you were Ah,
terminal in the line of the right side or left side or in the center off the line.
Right.
We have already seen aboard this script.
No,
let me weapon my command line from there.
I want to run this script.
So actually,
this script is there under my desktop by don script.
So let me open your script one second and I'm going to run this.
So it is asking and very well string.
So I'm going to enter some string.
Yes,
you're getting some all put in the center left side and then right side.
That's fine.
But here I have a small requirement.
By default you are displaying.
You are a string in a center left and right side on a line.
But by default,
I don't want to print.
If I ask Ally in my text,
then only you How do print other way just to print a normal way how you're going to print?
They were Are this?
Oh,
you're going to display your data with your pipes on Prince Street,
man,
that means,
But we do this print simply.
You were string whatever you have,
right.
My requirement is if I run my script how to display only with your prints.
Statement.
I don't want toe bring the remaining values.
I mean in the centre,
the left aside and light side.
If I ask while running script,
please align my text then only how to display this.
Otherwise I don't want to display.
Then how you can control there How you can control displaying your data in the middle of
centre or left or right?
Right.
See that?
What I'm doing is I'm writing something.
I'm writing something that is called If I'm writing falls,
I'm writing false.
And then under this line,
I'm going to write the word three lines.
See the script?
No.
Here.
I'm controlling the execution off these three lines with this line.
So here I am,
writing false falls means you are whatever the line you hear that line won't exclude these
three lines.
Let me go with this simple explanation.
Yes,
I Jimmy,
have a room for that.
There is a lock,
right?
No,
you are here.
I want to enter into this room.
Don't say that.
I can break the walls are door lock.
I can end up in a legal way.
I want to enter.
Like see if we have a keen Orhan right?
Then only you can enter into this room.
Otherwise you cannot enter the same thing.
I'm checking here.
If you false means you don't have a key.
If you don't have a key the lines which are there under this line these three lines are
there under that line.
This is like a room.
Some sort of statements block off court.
These lines won't execute.
Right?
First observed output.
I'm telling that I don't have a key in my hand.
Then you can't exclude these lines.
You can't enter into the room if if you enter into the room,
you can do any action,
right?
So I don't have a key in my hand.
That's why I can't exclude these three lines.
So guys took control.
Execution part of some sort off lines are maybe one line.
First of all,
you have to write If something may be false are pretty hard right then under that you have
to write.
You are controlling lines which lines you want to control while writing some lines under
this.
If line under if line,
you have to provide some space.
If you don't provide space,
you will get another.
Because these like your room under that You have these lines.
So that's why auto provide some space.
Okay,
I just operate block Not like we weapon my script on.
Let me first I will do this thing.
Clear my screen on the sea He was script and now I'm going to run this.
See the output?
I'm wondering simply Python.
You're getting only piped on output.
You're not displaying these things.
You're not getting an output from this.
The reason is directly or telling to your if condition this is,
if apparently are telling to your If I don't have a key then you've doesn't allow to
exclude this lines.
No one I'm doing is badly.
I'm telling to my if I have a key then you ought to write the truth.
Then you had rightto through.
Yes,
now I didn't improve.
That means now I'm telling to my python I have it true.
I have it key for my room.
Then see that now you heard and through their.
And if you run your core,
see that you're getting your output in three different ways,
right?
Fine.
But here,
whenever.
If you want to display or put your writing proof or never,
never if you want,
if you don't want to display or what you're writing false.
But you should not right like that.
Because while running your skip,
you can't go on Marty for your script.
That's why what I'm doing is here you can write some expression such that the result maybe
true or false.
If it is true,
you can get your output.
If it is false,
you can get your you won't get your foot in that your great some expression.
So for that one,
I'm doing this.
I am reading some user option user options.
You can take any variable I'm taking user option,
our user confirmation.
So I'm asking the user,
Do you want to Elaine fixed?
Say yes or no?
Right.
So if user says yes,
then only I want to exclude this lines.
If you that say it's no,
I don't want to execute,
right?
So now,
in travel writing prove what I'm doing is user confirmation.
If it is you close to us like suppose well running your spirit be free under Yes then yes
equals two.
Yes,
that means proof.
If you remember,
we we learn about comparison operators.
If I right some X equals three x.
That is true.
No If I right some yes equals two Yes brew.
If I write no equals two?
Yes.
Then that is false.
No.
While writing skip wild running script you're providing yes or no option Based on that,
your python is going to compare if user input user confirmation is equals to Yes Then this
is true.
We know if this is true.
You are if with a lot,
to exclude this lines.
If this volume is not equals two yes then this result is false.
That's why finally the expression result is false.
Then you're if doesn't elope Exclude this lines.
See?
I'm going to run my court First of all,
observe your script right now I'm going to run Enter your escape.
Let me run!
Fight on!
Maybe I forgot to sell this court.
Let me save it.
I sail on.
Let me read on.
So fight on Elaine fixed.
And the real string I'm on drink pytorch you guys because off this line.
So from Miller previous string operation practice,
right?
You know what is the use off import ways?
And this one you are importing pretty different model.
And from that you are using one of the operation to get your columns.
That's fine.
No,
because off this line enter your string.
It is asking.
I'm wondering Python.
Then after that imagery or printing your string Yes.
You're getting that output along with that because of this line.
Do you want to align?
Text say yes,
Armel.
Suppose if I say yes then this yes is going to store into your this variable right on that
.
Very well.
Im combating here.
If this value stored in your user confirmation if it is Yukos Yes,
then finally this expression result is proof.
If it is true,
then this youth will allow to exclude these three lines.
Right?
Im don't put one second.
Yeah.
Let me mags I minimized my skin.
Yeah,
No.
See that Bite on?
Yes.
You're getting perfectly No,
I'm really I am.
And bring any string.
And now I'm on Bring no,
that means.
You know what?
If you under No,
what will happen?
Your user conform.
Variable is no no equality.
Yes,
no false.
If it is false,
your if is not going to exclude these lines.
Right?
So that's what we did here.
So no.
Based on some decision,
some condition you are displaying the you are executing some sort off lines.
No,
this is called conditional statement.
Your condition is going to check with help off if keyword right,
if he's a conditional statement,
right?
No,
let me.
Right.
Let me do the sim packs for your simple if condition.
So,
guys,
nothing is there.
First of all,
if is all simple conditional statement right.
So used to control the execution off set off length corn block off court 1 may be one leg.
Right?
Then what is this index for that ive You have to write some expression here so that
expression may be to our false.
Then some statements,
statements means,
maybe Prince statement.
Or maybe some logic.
You cannot any number off statements,
something like that.
That's it.
So these two lines will execute if your expression is true and these two lines won't
exclude by your if condition.
If this expression is false not to create your expression,
you can use different things.
Different operators If you remember,
there are membership operators,
comparison operators,
identity operators on a logical operators on those operators,
final result is always true or false.
Now you convert any expression such that the result would be either true or false.
Now get your result is either true or false.
You can use combat is in operators identity membership Logical,
Open It does so By using these four operators,
you can create any expression Here.
Let me take one more example.
Let me write one more thing.
Let me do the program name as something like Capitalize Given or let me do one thing swept
case.
Not the way So what is my requirement?
These.
I want to read a string and then I want to ask the user.
Do you want to convert?
You are string into lower or upper or swap case.
Whatever it may be,
let me take a lower case injured off this one.
Let me do one thing convert given string into lower,
not the way right.
See first of all what I'm doing is I'm reading a string from the user.
So let me take User Street.
You can take any variable so to read a string You how input syntax entirely work String
right after reading the string.
What out is I need to ask the user Do you want to convert it into lower case?
Say yes or no So I'm taking user confirmation input.
Do you want to convert?
He was string into lower case.
Say yes or no.
That's it right?
No support Just assume that you are going to enter.
Yes,
If he says yes right then if user confirmation if it is equals to Yes then 20 were string
not lower.
That's it.
Fine.
Let's say right.
Let me run you a script.
Why?
Don can work.
Let me under Indo Capital letters or combination off something like the fight on.
So do you want to come?
What?
He was stringing to lower case?
Yes.
Then you're getting old port where we help Sorry,
we are taking user confirmation right here You are converting user string Let me take it as
it user String user String your converting Let me read on so by tone something like this we
want to convert.
You will string in the lower case.
Say yes or no.
Yes,
I want to convert.
Then just type it.
Yes,
and end up.
You're getting Lord kiss.
No,
I'm really Andi.
And I am giving something like some data.
Do you want to come?
What?
Your string into lower case?
No,
the North put.
Because if you enter yes then the value you are going to enter?
Yes,
Well store in tow.
This user conform variable and that value under this three defendable we're comparing.
If both are equal,
then this result becomes true.
If this is true,
then this If allowed to exclude this line if it is false,
your if condition don't allow to exclude this land.
That's why you're not getting output Whenever.
If you say no,
like right.
So here I'm using combat is an operative.
Not only that,
let me take one more example.
Suppose I have a list off values in my hand?
I have a list off values,
right?
I will do one thing.
Even numbers from 2 to 10.
Right?
Our Joe 10.
Late Monday.
Jiro 246 eight.
Then then these are even numbers,
right?
So what I'm doing is I'm writing a script.
I'm writing this tube.
That's good piece,
Jake.
Available even Not be.
Wait,
something like that,
I think.
Is there my even numbers?
My even numbers.
So my even numbers I'm taking this way.
Right then.
What I'm doing is I'm reading some number from your input night.
So let me take user number equals two.
So there's no we are not going to read a string.
We're going to really number so that nobody if you're going to read a number,
just take eval function than inside that just right in port.
Entering what number?
Right.
Next.
What I'm doing is you user number in in my even numbers.
Then I can say praying.
Bring.
You are given.
Number is my even number.
Nothing.
Is that just I'm creating expression,
right?
I'm creating an expression with membership operators.
Right.
Let me run this fight on.
Otherwise I will do one thing.
Type your script.
I'm going to run this.
See the output.
Enter your number.
I'm entering number called some six.
You're going number is my even number.
Because what are the number you are providing that is already there in my list,
off even numbers.
That's why I'm saying that is my even number.
Let me under Something called some 20.
No.
Good,
because that 20 is not there in this list.
That's why if you check,
you were user number in my even number more.
It is not that That's what this result is false.
This result is false that for you're not excluding this line not to.
Okay,
So,
guys,
this is about a simple,
if conditional statement.
So the ice before working with your if conditional statements you should be good with you
were come back.
Isn't identity membership on logical operators?
Good means no Nieto learn how to use if you run any operator in your combated gin or I
didn't really our membership.
What is the result?
True or false?
How you're getting through how you're getting false.
That's what you have to understand if you are good with that concept that you can easily
understand your conditional statements.
Okay?
Okay.
Thank you for watching this for you.